README.md, before:

# Email Sorting System

Automated email classification and analysis system that connects to IMAP, classifies emails, saves attachments, and generates reports.

## Features

- **IMAP Connection** - Secure email retrieval with error handling
- **Email Parsing** - Extracts sender, subject, content, and attachments
- **Classification** - Rule-based categorization into 8 categories
- **Attachment Management** - Saves attachments to categorized folders
- **Reporting** - Generates detail CSV (all emails, sorted by category) and summary CSV (statistics)

## Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies in a virtual enviroment:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Configure email credentials in `.env`:**
   ```env
   IMAP_SERVER=imap.gmail.com
   IMAP_PORT=993
   EMAIL_ADDRESS=your-email@gmail.com
   EMAIL_PASSWORD=your-app-password
   INTERNAL_DOMAIN=@mycompany.com
   ```

3. **Run the application:**
   ```bash
   python email_sorter
   ```

4. **CLI Usage and flags:**
   You can customize the ingestion process using the following flags:
   | Flag | Long Name   | Description                                             | Default  |               
   |-----:|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------|----------|
   | `-m` | `--mailbox` | The IMAP folder to scan (e.g., INBOX).                  | `INBOX`  |
   | `-s` | `--status`  | Email filter: UNSEEN, SEEN, ALL, FLAGGED, DELETED       | `UNSEEN` |
   | `-l` | `--limit`   | Maximum number of emails to process in the current run  | `None`   |
   | `-d` | `--domain`  | Set domain for 'Internal' classification                | `None`   |
   
   #### Examples:
   - Process the 10 most recent unread emails:
   ```bash
   python email_sorter -l 10
   ```
   - Scan only read emails:
   ```bash
   python email_sorter -s SEEN
   ```
   - Process only 5 flagged emails:
   ```bash
   python email_sorter -l 5 -s FLAGGED
   ```
   - Choose a custom domain, from which emails will be classified as "Internal"
   ```bash
   python email_sorter -d @custom.com
   ```
   - For more information run:
   ```bash
   python email_sorter -h
   ``` 

5. **Run tests:**
   ```bash
   pytest
   ```

## Project Structure

```
Email_sorting/
├── email_sorter/
│   ├── main.py               # Main entry point
│   ├── imap/
│   │   └── client.py         # IMAP connection handler
│   ├── parser/
│   │   ├── email_parser.py   # Email parsing
│   │   └── classification.py # Classification rules
│   ├── reporting/
│   │   ├── attachment.py     # Attachment handler
│   │   ├── reporting.py      # Report generator
│   │   └── database.py       # sql database
│   └── utils/
│       └── logger.py         # Logging setup
├── tests/                    # Test suite
├── output/                   # Generated files
│   ├── attachments/          # Saved attachments by category
│   ├── reports/              # CSV reports
│   └── email.db              # Database      
└── requirements.txt          # Dependencies
```



## Categories

The system classifies emails into:
- Security, Finance, Marketing, Job Market, Tech, Meetings, Travel, Social, Internal, General

## Output

- **Attachments:** `output/attachments/{category}/filename.ext`
- **Reports:**  
  - `email_report_YYYY-WWW.csv` — one row per email (full detail), sorted by category, date, subject  
  - `summary_report_YYYY-WWW.csv` — category counts and percentages

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- IMAP-enabled email account
- See `requirements.txt` for Python packages

Commit message:

added the option to choose the language of classification rules(en or fr)

README.md, after:

# Email Sorting System

Automated email classification and analysis system that connects to IMAP, classifies emails, saves attachments, and generates reports.

## Features

- **IMAP Connection** - Secure email retrieval with error handling
- **Email Parsing** - Extracts sender, subject, content, and attachments
- **Classification** - Rule-based categorization into 8 categories
- **Attachment Management** - Saves attachments to categorized folders
- **Reporting** - Generates detail CSV (all emails, sorted by category) and summary CSV (statistics)

## Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies in a virtual enviroment:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Configure email credentials in `.env`:**
   ```env
   IMAP_SERVER=imap.gmail.com
   IMAP_PORT=993
   EMAIL_ADDRESS=your-email@gmail.com
   EMAIL_PASSWORD=your-app-password
   INTERNAL_DOMAIN=@mycompany.com
   ```

3. **Run the application:**
   ```bash
   python email_sorter
   ```

4. **CLI Usage and flags:**
   You can customize the ingestion process using the following flags:
   | Flag    | Long Name   | Description                                             | Default  |               
   |---------|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------|----------|
   | `-m`    | `--mailbox` | The IMAP folder to scan (e.g., INBOX).                  | `INBOX`  |
   | `-s`    | `--status`  | Email filter: UNSEEN, SEEN, ALL, FLAGGED, DELETED       | `UNSEEN` |
   | `-l`    | `--limit`   | Maximum number of emails to process in the current run  | `None`   |
   | `-d`    | `--domain`  | Set domain for 'Internal' classification                | `None`   |
   | `-lang` | `--language`| Select classification language                          | `en`     |
   #### Examples:
   - Process the 10 most recent unread emails:
   ```bash
   python email_sorter -l 10
   ```
   - Scan only read emails:
   ```bash
   python email_sorter -s SEEN
   ```
   - Process only 5 flagged emails:
   ```bash
   python email_sorter -l 5 -s FLAGGED
   ```
   - Choose a custom domain, from which emails will be classified as "Internal":
   ```bash
   python email_sorter -d @custom.com
   ```
   - Sort unread emails using classification rules in French:
   ```bash
   python email_sorter -lang fr
   ```
   - For more information run:
   ```bash
   python email_sorter -h
   ``` 

5. **Run tests:**
   ```bash
   pytest
   ```

## Project Structure

```
Email_sorting/
├── email_sorter/
│   ├── main.py               # Main entry point
│   ├── imap/
│   │   └── client.py         # IMAP connection handler
│   ├── parser/
│   │   ├── email_parser.py   # Email parsing
│   │   └── classification.py # Classification rules
│   ├── reporting/
│   │   ├── attachment.py     # Attachment handler
│   │   ├── reporting.py      # Report generator
│   │   └── database.py       # sql database
│   └── utils/
│       └── logger.py         # Logging setup
├── tests/                    # Test suite
├── output/                   # Generated files
│   ├── attachments/          # Saved attachments by category
│   ├── reports/              # CSV reports
│   └── email.db              # Database      
└── requirements.txt          # Dependencies
```



## Categories

The system classifies emails into:
- Security, Finance, Marketing, Job Market, Tech, Meetings, Travel, Social, Internal, General

## Output

- **Attachments:** `output/attachments/{category}/filename.ext`
- **Reports:**  
  - `email_report_YYYY-WWW.csv` — one row per email (full detail), sorted by category, date, subject  
  - `summary_report_YYYY-WWW.csv` — category counts and percentages

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- IMAP-enabled email account
- See `requirements.txt` for Python packages
